
Week 1
    Welfare hedonism↔well-being is only in absence of suffering and presence of pleasure
    What makes hedonism interesting↔Pleasure is the only good
    Psychological hedonism↔everyone's goal is to minimize suffering and maximize pleasure
    Ethical hedonism↔everyone should minimize suffering and maximize pleasure
    Quantitative vs. qualitative hedonists↔units are the same versus lexical inferiority
    Mental state theory→happiness is from the mind
        businessman example→happy mentally, but everything is going wrong
    Preference theory↔you have preferences and are satisfied through fulfilling your desires
        restricted preference theory→this only applies to certain preferences
            example→I'm not satisfied that my preference for the number of atoms in the universe is correct
    Intrinsically vs. instrumentally good or bad.
    The experience machine
        generally proves that most people are not→hedonists
    Value lexicality
    Our evaluation/valuing of life is not of truth, but meaning
    September 10th, 2020
        Hume and Rousseau argue that you feel good from helping each other (utilitarian argument)
        The Republic: most people who are given a switch to kill someone and nobody is looking won't pull the switch
        Keep in mind the difference between normative and positive statements
        Hobbes: the idea 
        Bentham, modern utilitarian
        The Game by Terry Schott
        Week 2
            Contradiction of courtship (Pinker, Fools for Love)↔flaunt your desire while playing hard to get
            Klein, the Mating Game
                behavioral scientists, why love came to be, cheating, extra-pair copulation in both males and females in short-term relationships
                Attribute points experiments→both men and women prioritized physical attractiveness for short term, but men stayed with physical in long term and women for person
            Vellemin, Beyond Price
                The distinction between what made you fall in love vs. what made you stay in love/makes love valuable→attachment vs. love
                Benevolent affection→is not necessarily romantic
                Love is the desire to be valued singularly→we refuse to compare to with other individuals
                Kolodny argues↔we love because of a person's special relationship with us
                    the author disagrees because→this is egocentric
                Iris Murdoch says that “love is the extremely difficult realisation that something other than oneself is real”
                    Murdoch’s description of love, as the realization that something is real other than oneself, may seem to imply that loving oneself is either unavoidable or impossible
            Hurka
                we love people due to special experiences
            Nozick, Love's Bond
                the defining characteristic of love→your well-being is tied to someone else's
                    when someone you love is hurt, you are hurt; when they are better you feel better
                infatuation and its potential to transform further
                we, the melding of two personalities
                    men may be more likely to put "we" inside their circle, while women put their circle under "we"
                being loved for yourself versus something else
            Love is a difficult process of seeing the personhood of another
            Discussion
                My argument on love
                    position→Love, or rather the pursuit of being valued singularly, is practically impossible. It is impossible to prevent oneself from comparing an individual to another, and in doing so one may find a more suitable partner.
                    counter position↔There is only one counterexample required to refute  this claim. One could simply provide an example of two objects which  are superior to each other in different categories. Comparing them would  be foolish given their different classifications.  In this regard, they  are valued singularly within their respective classifications.
                Is you yourself in its entirety attached to the mind and not the body?
                Romanticism as a proof for dualism
            Mate choice↔men and women choose on "generally agreed upon mate value", but almost all on physical attractiveness (Hurrydate, behavioral psychology)
            Hagel, what does it mean to be a person?↔To be a person is to be recognized as a person by another person
            Reverse experience machine↔what if, instead of the world being entirely simulated, you simulate? That you signal that you are smart, whereas you actually are not
        Week 3: Friendship
            Telfer
                The three requirements
                    Shared activities
                        the shared activity criteria is too weak
                    Passion of friendship
                        there should be some type of affectionate regard between individuals
                        distinguish affection from benevolence and sense of duty
                        desire for company
                    Acknowledgement of the fulfillment of the first two
                    mutual concern
                        Common knowledge↔you know it, I know it, you know I know it, I know you know it, etc.
                        Is Common knowledge required for mutual concern? As in, do both parties need to know that they have mutual concern?
                        Is it Common knowledge required for fun? As in, do both parties need to know the other is having fun?
                Mutual knowledge vs. common knowledge↔they both know A vs. they both know that they both know A
                Aristotle's friendship↔men must be virtuous/good, as they must care about someone else's well-being
                    we care about friends 'in themselves' rather than changeable details
                Duty bound relationship?
                    You can argue utilitarian, you should duty for the benefit of both
                Friendship is life-enhancing
                    Increases our opportunity to emotional range
                    Enhances our activities
                    Enlarges our knowledge
            Thomas, Friendship
                Love is present in deep friendship
                Flow of information and self-disclosure both ways, not like a therapist which is one way
                Role-playing, social norms
                Companion friendship
                    Susan's explanation to Mary about her romantic affinity to Mary's husband
                    An outside observer just sees formal interaction, but Mary as a confidant sees that she actually is attracted to him, revealing something otherwise wouldn't be known
                    Companion friends are integral to each other's lives through choice and mutual love
            Aristotle
                Aristotle's 3 kinds of friendships
                    It's advantageous to you to be friends with them
                    Purely for pleasure
                    Ideal, beyond utility or pleasure
                        Good friendship requires good people similar in virtue
                They help us learn more about ourselves↔self-knowledge
                Features reflect one's love for oneself. These are features:
                    Virtue
                    Goodwill
                        Goodwill ≠ Friendship
                    Concord
                Justification of Friendship↔Friends are not needed for happiness, but are
                    The greatest external good
                    Encourage virtue
                    Realize human capabilities
            You can get friendships where you care about someone from an initially superficial (for your own benefit) relationship
                Playing tennis for health, but then enjoy it example
            Kant
                Two motivations to action of man↔Self-love, and love of humanity
                Self love has no moral merit, whereas love of humanity is most meritous
                Self-disclosure http://onemvweb.com/sources/sources/self_disclosure_friendship.pdf
                    Do not disclose too much
                        "Kant also mars his otherwise appealing picture of self-disclosure in friendship with an admonition to beware of the ultimate untrustworthiness of friends, whereas Aristotle notes that friends develop trust only in time in the course of sharing activities together"
            Is shared disclosure a prerequisite/requirement or feature for friendship? I have deep friendships from friendship
            Maximizing vs. Satisficing↔go for the very best vs. go for good enough
                Going from top down to bottom up
                If you're a satisficing, why would you want more? As long as I hit my floor I'm happy
                Maximizers often adopt short-term satisficing strategies because seeking maximizing is costly
            Discussion
                My argument on friendship
                    position→Friendship is mutually beneficial. That is to say, both partners of a friendship benefit from it.
                    position→Common knowledge is a requirement of friendships. That is to say, to be friends, both partners must recognize their relationship as friendship, and be aware that the other partner also considers their relationship as friendship, be aware that the other partner is aware of that consideration, ad infinitum.
                    counter position→There is only one counterexample required to refute this claim. We seek to provide an example of two friends where the fact that the two are friends is not common knowledge. That is to say, they may both consider each other friends, but are not aware that the other person considers them as friends, etc..
                    Let us adopt Aristotle's kinds of friendship as a definition for friendship. We seek a relationship satisfying the above conditions that is also capable of fulfilling, at the very least, Aristotle's first kind of friendship (friendship of pleasure).
                    Consider two friends where the fact they are friends is mutual knowledge, but not common knowledge. They both consider each other friends, spending time together out of self-interest and the pleasure they derive from each other. However, while the two are friends through Aristotle's definition of "friendship of pleasure", they never disclose to each other, verbally or implicitly, that one considers the other a friend. The existence of this counterexample refutes the above position.
                Exegesis vs. systematic philosophy→Systematic looks for truth, exegesis looks at what people were thinking or meaning
                    Exegesis
                Anjali: shared activity is a requirement for friendship
                    Counterexample: two audience members both admiring different performers have a shared activity and are friends.
                        Anjali's response: common knowledge requirement?
                        My response: shared activity is a requirement but not the only requirement
                Alin: friendship should have common knowledge of each other as a person, not necessarily that each person regards the other as a friend
        Week 4: Children
            Dan Gilbert, Does Fatherhood Make You Happy? And the Joy of Children
                The only symptom of "Empty Nest Syndrome" is more smiling
                    A very different story between the narrative and the actual measure of happiness
                Spending time with kids is equivalent in happiness to vacuuming
                98% say it's worth it
            Evolution Biology: Gene that makes you delusional for having children is important for reproducing, as opposed to one that makes them not reproduce (Shelly brings up)
            Babies are bad for marriage
                Cowan's study of 96 couples, four different pathways that couples take in deciding to become pregnant and carry the pregnancy to term. First are couples who agree about when to begin trying to become pregnant (about half of their sample). Then there are the couples who "find themselves pregnant" and decide to "accept fate" and go ahead (about 15%). Another set of couples (about 20% of the sample) are still ambivalent when they reach the 7th month of pregnancy. Finally, for some couples who are at serious loggerheads about the decision, one spouse agrees to become a parent only because the other threatens to go it alone (about 10%)
                Average decline in marital satisfaction was almost completely accounted for by couples who (1) no planning; (2) ambivalent late in pregnancy, or (3) disagreed about having a baby but went ahead and conceived without resolving their difference
                Half of planners were happier 
                Half of planners were happy
            Department of Agriculture
                Average cost is about $233,610; $170,000 for lower income and $370,000 for higher
            Pinker's How the Mind Works
                About 50% of personality is genetic from birth
                As little as 5% of personality is from parents raising people!
                    Identical twins raised separately still end up being very similar in personality
                    Adopted siblings raised together are as different as two people plucked from the population can be
                Parents influence kids most at birth after conception (50%) but only 5% after
                45% is unaccounted for, could be life events, etc.
            Jeanine: What about pride? We haven't covered the pride we have for our children in instilling in them values
                My (Braden's) response: Pinker's paper suggests 55% or less of our children's development is from our upbringing. Are we in some ways delusional in using this as a justification for children?
                My response in response: You can be prideful in being the majority, >50%, and the majority stakeholder.
            Questions
                International differences in happiness? Income disparities
                    We have an American-centric study, similar results in UK and Scandanavia
                Icelandic parents who aren't married?
            Discussion
                My argument on children
                    position→Parents often cite how proud they are of their children when their children achieve great things. Should this pride in their children also extend towards themselves, it is justified. Parents can and deserve to derive satisfaction from the pride in their child's success due to their personal role in their development.
                    strongest counterargument→As little as 5% of a child's personality is determined by parental influence. This is supported through studies: identical twins raised separately have similar personalities, and adopted siblings raised in the same household are often as different as two people from the population can be. Parents shouldn't be proud of themselves, as they do not have nearly as large a role in their child's development as they likely suppose.
                    response→About 50% of personality is genetic from birth. Even if you don't add the 5% of the counterargument to this figure, this means that the parents are the majority stakeholder in their child's development ever since the child is conceived. Additionally, the counterargument makes the assumption that you must know the share of your contribution to be proud of your children. In the same way that citizens can be proud of their country constructing a beautiful landmark, one does not need to know what "percent" or share of something of their contribution to be proud of something. In fact, one does not even need to be the majority stakeholder to derive pride: simply seeing any positive effect from their effort or participation can be sufficient to experience pride.
                Parents feeling proud of the action, not the achievement
                    Baseball achievement: Feel pride for driving, etc.
                    If successful, then my parents are proud
                        inverse→if not successful, my parents are not proud
                        converse→if my parents are proud, then I'm successful
        Week 5: Achievement
            Singer's Living to Some Purpose
                he argues↔If it doesn't have an objective or actual achievement, it doesn't add value to your life. We decide, it is not subjective
                The two possible motivations of Sisyphus (Achievement vs. Process)
                    Push different stones to the top as to make a temple
                    The gods have imbued him with a fierce desire to do what he was condemned to do - push stone
                Objectivist vs Subjectivist
                    Objectivists 
                        finds meaning through→presuppose objective values which are good, such as creation of great works
                        Push different stones to the top as to make a temple  
                    Subjectivists
                        finds meaning through→internal desires, and motivation. Anything can be motivational, not necessarily objective. Meaning is subjective rather than objective
                The fifties had low satisfaction among housewives. The Feminine Mystique
            Branford concludes that accomplishments must be difficult
                Picasso example: what is easy for him can be an accomplishment for us because of its difficulty
            Lowercase achievements vs. upper case A achievement↔Capital A achievements are tangible and meaningful
            Achievement
                Objective vs. Subjective
        Week 6: Career October 6th, 2020  
            Gilbert, Super-Replicaators
                Idea and gene replication: ones which enable their own transmission are selected for
                Super replicators, super-replicating false belief
                Belief-transmission, and some things about happiness just simply aren't true
            For the Love of Money (The New York Times)
                A Wall-Street dude from Columbia with a rough childhood and life - drugs, alcohol, etc.
                Recognized his pursuit of wealth was an addiction, like drugs and alcohol
            Being rich wrecks your soul. We used to know that. (Washington Post)
            Doing the Math to Find the Good Jobs (The Wall Street Journal)
                https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/Mw8JSaNEAzOMh2kLPVAEHCXFK-pm43dcShVLHUUptCpgDnpZ52r2NzIsj_OAc_caGVlny8iopAuvg705qksVasc_hSzChTyXVJwe7g0nlIx9psKJDyCcHQi0ZdKmr1Vr  The Case for Working With Your Hands
            The Case for Working With Your Hands (The New York Times)
            If you had all the money in the world, would you still work?
        Week 7: Education
            What doesn't stick to us is knowledge, but skills
            Discussion Questions
                Skills for writing - shouldn't we have an email class? Negotiation/public speaking?
                It's important to learn applicable skills
                Is there an intrinsic value to pursuing truth and/or knowledge
                Given finite resources, we cannot pursue all possible goals
                    I wrote the EXACT same thing in my essay!
                Aristotle - Is someone brave but never has the opportunity to display courage. Are they really brave?
                    Is there value in having a skill but never applying it? Or is it through a applying a skill that one gets value?
                    Could you argue that one's capacity to do something makes someone better than not having the capacity to?
                    Many people do not realize their capacity until they apply. For example, you don't know what you don't do.
            Education allows us to create the person we wish to become
            Aristotle: everything has a nature, and the goal is for something to fulfill its nature
            Discussion Questions
                The tragedy of Socrates - his student invaded Athens
        Week 8: Truth October 19th, 2020
            Jennings, How Often Do We Lie
                Everyone lies and / or fudges
                Matrix test: fudged from 4 to 6, when stakes raised from $0.50 to $10, fudged from 4 to 5
                    More money made it more difficult to justify cheating
                USC psychologist Jerald Jellison determined that people are lied to about 200 times a day.Charles Honts, a professor of Psychology at Boise State University and polygraph expert believes that humans lie in about 25% of their social interactions.
            Dworkin, Lying Around
                Why is it wrong?
                    Because it is intrinsically wrong. This is philosophyspeak for “it’s just wrong, wrong because of what it is, wrong by its very nature.” 2.   Because it produces bad effects, i.e. harms social trust, damages various kinds of relationships—personal, professional, political--- leads people to harm based on false information, etc. 3.   Because lying cannot be something that we all do. If we all did it, nobody would believe me when I lie and so it would be pointless to lie. But if we all cannot do it, why am I allowed to do it and not you and you and you... But then we are all doing it. 4.   Because it is an assertion of what you believe to be false and this violates a convention of language. 5.   Because of the intention behind the lie, i.e. to deceive another person. 6.   Because telling a lie is a violation of the autonomy of the hearer. It is an exercise of power over another rational individual—all the more insidious because it sometimes is undetected. 7.   Because telling a lie treats another person as a means to some end. This is true even of lies told to benefit the hearer. In such case he is treated as a means to his own good. 8.   Because telling lie is a violation of a duty to yourself to be truthful. 9.   Because a principle forbidding lying would be agreed to by all of us if we were trying to find a principle to regulate our common behavior that we could all agree to.
                Always, sometimes, never lie
                    Never lie
                        Kant says, "To be truthful (honest) in all declarations is therefore a sacred unconditional command of reason, and not to be limited by any expediency."
                            Categorical Imperative↔You are not permitted to lie (in these circumstances) unless everyone is entitled to lie. And if everyone is entitled to lie, and everybody knows this, then what you say will not be believed. And if you are not believed, your lie will not save your friend. So universalising your act of lying makes what you are trying to accomplish impossible, i.e. self-defeating. So we should never lie.
                                We are not allowed to lie to save a life
                        Constant draws out what he sees as an implication of Kant's theory "that to tell a falsehood to a murderer who asked us whether our friend, of whom he was in pursuit, had not taken refuge in our house, would be a crime.”
                Discussions
                    Is intent to deceive a definition of a lie?
                    What if you're asked to lie? And so the intent is revealed before you even speak.
                        Lier's club. They tell "whoppers", and nobody will be 
                        Does a lie have to have a falsehood condition? Our poll was 50-50
                        Is a lie to save someone's feelings morally justified? Poll was 90-10
                        What if you were to reverse your experiences through a hypnotists, and then believe everything you say even though you're lying.
                            Flashbulb memory↔Recollections are completely wrong
                    Armando
                        Is the value of knowledge in the potential of being applied or in actual application?
                            There are many things I know which I will never apply
                            There are some things I will succeed in, or apply, but never know
                            Platonic Problem: What happens if you succeed by accident? Imagine you are really good at something, applying, but do not know? Is there value when there is no knowledge?
        Week 7, Morality
            October 27th, 2020
                Singer argues that you have an obligation to spend your money in the best way possible
                Colson, The Volunteer at Auschwitz
                    The priest volunteers to sacrifice and trade places with another for starvation
                Tolstoy, Where Love Is, There is God
                    Grandma and the kid who stole an apple
                    "Oh Granny, that is our way—but that is not God's way. If he should be whipped for stealing an apple, what should be done for us for our sins?"
                    The granny and the kid walk together
                Singer, On Giving
                    Bill Gates
                        Attacks that he is donating to improve his image tells more about the attackers rather than the attacked
                        When you see a wealthy billionaire donating, it may incentivize you to also wish to donate. But when you view it as a selfish gesture, you are excusing yourself from this obligation
                    People do not fully own their success; up to 90% of success is from social capital
                    Philanthropists are not tied down by lobbying, etc.
                    While we may applaud Gates and Buffett, it is alarming that our gov allows the fate of millions to rest on the decisions of 2 or 3 private citizens
                    Americans privately give more per capita to international causes more than almost any other nation
            Discussion Section
                Written Position
                    Position: Lying should be immoral under all circumstances, not just on a moral but practical standpoint. From a consequentialist view, this would, on average, enables a lie to gain utility most effectively. If one truly felt the need to lie, say to save a life, this would ensure that the lie is most likely to work.
                    It is possible for something to be both immoral yet practical in some cases. This is what this position argues is the case with lying. There is a point in which an individual may decide it is worth it to lie, to save a life, etc.. In the case that one does, one would wish that this lie is most effective. This would most effectively secure the desired outcome.
                    The reason why lying often works in the first place is due to the expectation that one does not lie. A lie's effectiveness is correlated to the degree the recipient does not expect to receive a lie. This expectation is strongest under the categorical imperative condition—that it is immoral to lie, and one should not ever lie. The breaking of this condition and therefore expectation enables lies to be more effective.
                    To say that lying is ever morally permissable to lie sets a dangerous precedent. At what what benefit, or cost, or point is it suddenly permissable to lie? To save a life? To save someone from harm? Generalizing this, drawing the line of whether to lie or not may be obscure and self-serving—anyone can declare that their lie was justified. In this case, the effectiveness of lying would be reduced. If lying should be morally impermissable, it would be of a greater effectiveness than previously mentioned.
                        To clarify, we declare that lying is never morally permissable, but may be, under certain conditions, practical. This is subjective and depends on the person.
                    CA: There are situations in which lying would be used to secure negative utility—fraud, theft, and many modern crimes are accompanied with lying. If this view is truly rooted in practicality or consequentalism, then it is not safe to assume that lying will be used only in cases to "save a life". Most likely, there will be immoral people who will take advantage of the immorality of lying to cheat others.
                    Response: It is true that a lie under the CI condition could be used to secure negative utility more effectively. The real value of this position is not utility, but moral agency—that is, one's ability to affect change through their moral character.
                    Possible CA to above response: The above response makes an invalid link between moral agency and physical agency. The fact that one's choice doesn't affect one's surroundings as effectively because lying is not immoral does not diminish the moral agency one experiences. In the above condition, one experiences the same degree of moral agency, whether the lie is effective or not.
                    A different possible response to above CA: We can also say that it is an imperative to act positive utility, but that's a different story.
                    I ran out of time to polish as I have another Midterm (this time in Computer Science) tomorrow haha
                Lying should be done on the other person’s desires rather than the lier’s interpretation.  
                The dying husband scenario: what if the wife wanted her husband to die a painful death?
                Lying to serve someone’s self-image. It’s obvious that this is a subjective of whether it is moral or not moral to lie.
                Just because the outcome is positive does not mean its’ justified. Say I want to assassinate someone, miss and end up killing someone who was going to commit genocide. Just because the action’s outcome was positive does not mean that it is justified.
                Lying is immoral because it creates an aberrance in the knowledge of the world. We have a moral obligation to advance the search of truth of humankind in this world. This absence of truth has the potential to lead others astray. It is this tinkering with the general knowledge of  the world that is immoral. That has the potential for bad outcomes.
        Week 10
            Three Trains of Thoughut
                Strong Morality
                    It could be rational to act morally
                Moral Skeptic - Morality cannot be rationally defended
                    Moral reasons are not genuine reasons in their own right
                    Nozick, from Giving Everything Its Due
                Morality has a place, but it's not the only metric
            Nagel, Right and Wrong
                The Golden Rule, Stealing an Umbrella
                The basis of morality is that good and harm to particular people is good or bad not just from their point of view, but objectively
            Discussion 
                Mother accidentally kills the child
                Tips
                    Theorize
                    Understand the difficulties of your position
                    Counterarguments should be "How do you answer"
                    Recognize the nuances and difficulties
        Week 11
            May, The Weight of the Past
                Snowden and NFL players have peaked
                We must not look at things this way, however
            Shafer-Landau, Ten Arguments Against Moral Objectivity
                Objectivism requires absolutism
                    Objectivity requires absolute moral rules, but there are none
                All truth is subjective
                    Argument
                        There are no objective truths
                        Therefore, there are no objective moral truths
                    Argument fails because Premise 1 is either true or false, but can't be true
                Equal Rights Imply Equal Plausibility
                Moral Objectivity Supports Dogmatism
                Moral Objectivity Supports Intolerance
                Moral disagreement Undermines Moral Objectivity
                Atheism Undermines Moral Objectivity
                The Absence of Categorical Reasons Undermines Moral Objectivity
                Moral Motivation Undermines Moral Objectivity
                Values Have No Place in a Scientific World
            Being healthy doesn't mean you have everything, not being healthy means you have nothing
            Is there a value in well-roundedness?
                Hurka argues there is, though Kagan does not
                10xer. People scale but Talent Doesn't
                If given the choice to invest equal amount of goodness or excellence, is it better to distribute it in many lives or only one
            Horatio Alger vs. Alger Horatio. Area under curve. Is improvement valuable?
                The story
                    Horatio Alger story↔starts out with nothing, works up to everything
                    Consider the "Alger Horatio" story↔starts out with everything, works down to nothing
                    The area under the curve is equal
                My proposition: the value is not only dependent on the area under the curve, but the absolute value of the end of the function
                    Two considerations
                        Consider one where area under curve is equal but end points are different
                        Consider one where end points are equal but area under curve is difference
                Stable life vs. upwards life. Area under curve is equal but endpoint is higher
            Stable life vs. a Z life? Area under curve is equal, endpoint is equal
                I want to experience the whole range of emotions
                    I want to suffer and experience the full range of emotions
                    Life is suffering. Would I want to suffer?
                    This is because of curiosity, and humans are inherently curious
                Humans are inherently curious
                Improvement is inherently alluring because it makes a better story. Humans are inherently storytellers    
                    As a subset, Zig Zag is more desirable because it makes a better story
                    Time is forward facing, and so since it is one direction, we prefer good to be ahead and bad to be in the past
            November 12th, 2020
                20th century analytical philosophy
                    What separates truth from opinion is verifiability (Popper)
                        Truth is something we can verify
                        Anything not verifiable is bullshit
                        Early 20th century, verificationists and logical positivists 
                        Pitfall: if true, it disproves itself. If false, it is still false
                    Truth is the convergence in the future (Charles Peirce)
                        Getting the cart before the horse
                        We will believe it because it is true
                        It is true because we will believe it
                Popper and Peirce -> Truth is verifiable (Popper) and will be verified (Peirce)
        Week 12
            Some things are reasonably true, not just opinions
            Taylor, The Meaning of Life
                Sisyphus' existence is meaningless, would have meaaning if there was a point
            Nagel, The Absurd
                Assertions that life is absurd are false
                    "Nothing we do now will matter in a million years"
                        But by the same token, this means nothing in a million a matters. Then this statement doesn't mean anything
                    "We are all going to die", so all chains of justifications don't matter. If the end result is death it doesn't matter
                        Life does not consist of a sequence of activities in which each has a purpose later in the sequence
                        Aspirin is taken for headache without any further justification
            Sarte's Case: The debate about the join the Resistance or stay with your mom
                There are no moral 
                Is morality addable? If the good of staying with mom outweighs the bad of not joining the cause, or vice versa
                    Is 1000 people dying and 1001 people being born equal to 0 people dying and 1 being born
                Calling this a dilemma because either way, you are wrong
                    But couldn't this be overgeneralized and say dilemmas happen all the time
                OR, say that both are morably permissible
                Negative utilitarianism
                    Minimize suffering, suffering is lexically inferior to pleasure
                    Generalizes uncontrollably: don't have kids, since they'l suffer. We should try to all kill ourselves
        Discussion
            A sine line is better than a flat line (Could be my essay)
                Humans naturally want to experience the full range of emotions
                    Pixar movies
                Why do people want to live lives that are story-worthy?
                    Life is always changing, and we would want the change to be good or bad
                    Prompt: When given the choice between a storied life and non storied life of equal utility (literally the same events but ordered), one should choose the former. There is inherently better goodness.
                        What gets lost in a life that (even if you tried) you couldn't narrate
                    But we want change that is bad. What makes a good story?
                        We do not want only good change. We want change that is for the better  
                        The justification is what matters. It is not a life where there is no suffering, but a life where the suffering is justified  
                        Not the content, but the context, that gives it value. The context that negative content is worth it in the end
                Humans are naturally gravitating towards stories
                    Why else are we buying Horatio Alger stories and not Alger Horatio stories?
                        You see stories that begin from nothing to everything, but not everything to nothing
                    There is something inherently alluring in improvement to the human psyche
                    Fallacy: what we observe doesn't mean it's what we desire
                Humans are inherently curious
                    We want to experience the full range of emotions
                To experience happiness, you need pain to make it more meaningful
                    2 distinctions: We could get bored of pleasure, or 
                    Do not equate happiness to utility
                There is something inherently good in improvement
                Humans are always in up or down. There is no such thing as a flat line
                We get bored of pleasure
                
        More thoughts on the essay
            We prefer the pain to be behind us than ahead, so there's a desire for improvement
    Week 13
        The meaning of your life is defined by your problems, not your successes
        Epistemology↔regarding to knowledge
            epistemologically superior→better oriented towards truth seeking
            Cosmological perspective is epistemologically superior to local/relative perspective
        Metaphysical↔the essence of something
        The problem of induction
            Hume
        Sellers
            The synoptic vision
            Things hang together
        Two best advice
            Clarity
                It is okay to meander
                Do not obfuscate with big terms, they are not the prerequisite to a good paper
            Ambition: Prefer depth over breadth
    Discussion
        Michael: A soldier and a peacemaker have different meanings of life
            You cannot know something until you experience it
        Me:  The experiences of a soldier and peacemaker are different, and so they have different meanings of life. However, I contend that if we all experienced all the possible experiences of life, we would all arrive to the same conclusion. The meaning of life converges
        Anjali: What about dying? What if we found out that through dying that death is way better than living
        Me: This is interesting point. To imagine that the only way to converge to the meaning of life is to leave the realm of life and enter death
        Armando: Dying vs. ceasing to exist are not the same thing
            Dying could send you to the library
            Ceasing to exist is conceptual


